The Smart City includes major changes in city life like public transportation, development of roads, electricity in houses, streets, commercial places and water supply. The current public transportation like city bus should be upgraded. The city bus at the movement is not traceable for public but only for the bus authorities. The people have to wait for bus at bus stops for long period or till the bus comes. Due to rapid increase in population, there is need for efficient public transportation system. There is increased burden on public transportation like bus just because of population. Therefore, remote user needs a smart system which provides real time information of bus.
The Objective of the proposed design attempts to answer the passenger's need for a reliable, accurate and comprehensive system that provides them with useful information. So we proposed a new system which solves the drawback of current public transportation system. Our system handles all the data like current location of bus, management of buses and its schedule. The real time tracking of bus can be done by our proposed system and this information is then given to remote user who want to know the real time bus information. Some technologies like GPS (Global Positioning System), Google maps and Google Firebase Database are used for development purpose. Our system provides web based application, which gives real time location of bus on Google maps to remote user. We have installed a microcontroller NodeMCU in bus which is connected with GPS with wire and it is also connected with IR sensors on both IN and OUT doors. The NodeMCU is connected with the app of conductor which is android based. The whole set of the embedded system is connected to the cloud server. 
There is an android application for public or bus user which will help to track bus and get the exact location of bus, the vacant seats in bus and will also contain a small database of bus’s timetable. The timetable will contain Bus Number, Names of Bus stops will also help to search source and destination and give the information about which bus to catch. Simulation of this project has been performed in Proteus Design Suite. Here, a model similar to our actual hardware circuit is designed and output is verified by dumping the code into it. Hence we got desired result there.
